Hello and welcome to the third part
of the Deep Learning course Recurrent Neural Networks.
We're gonna have to tackle a very challenging problem
in this part, because we're gonna have to predict
the stock price of nothing else than Google.
So it's pretty challenging,
especially if you have some notions in financial
engineering, since indeed there is the Brownian Motion
that states that the future variations of the stock price
are independent from the past,
so it's actually impossible to predict exactly
the future stock price otherwise we would all
become billionaires but it's actually possible
to predict some trends.
So we're gonna try to predict the upward and downward trends
that exist in the Google stock price.
And to do so, the model that we will implement
in this part three, will be an LSTM.
We will make an LSTM that will try to capture
the downward and upward trend of the Google stock price.
And with that goal in mind, I can tell you for sure,
that LSTM is the most powerful model that can do this.
It performs well better than the traditional RMI model.
So that's exactly what we're going to implement
in this course, besides, we're not gonna implement
a simple LSTM, it's gonna be super robust with some
high-dimensionality, several layers, it's gonna be
a stacked LSTM, then we're gonna add some dropout
regularization to avoid overfilling
and we will use the most powerful optimizer that we have
in the Carris Library.
So, and how are we going to do this?
How are we going to approach this problem?
Well, we're gonna train our LSTM model on five years
of the Google stock price, and this is from
the beginning of 2012 to the end of 2016 and then,
based on this training, based on the correlations identified
or captured by the LSTM of the Google stock price,
we will try to predict the first month of 2017.
We're gonna try to predict January 2017.
And again, we're not going to try to predict
exactly the stock price, we're gonna try to predict
the trend, the upward or downward trend
of the Google stock price.
So that's the approach, and therefore what I'm gonna do now
is show you this Google stock price from beginning 2012
to the end of 2016 but just before we do that,
let's find the right working directory folder
in File Explorer, so the Deep Learning aid is a folder
on my desktop.
So let's go inside.
Now we're still on volume one.
Congratulations, you have almost reached the first half
of the course, now we're in part three,
Recurrent Neural Networks.
Let's go inside and right after you saw
the intuition lectures with Kirill,
let's now put this theory in practice
to build a Recurrent Neural Network.
Alright, so, that's the working directory folder,
as you can see there are three files,
the train data, that contains the Google stock price
from beginning 2012 to the end of 2016,
and then the test data that contains the first month
of 2017, that is, the whole financial month of January 2017.
So we're gonna have a look at this data more closely now
and that's of course our RNN Python file
where we will implement the whole Recurrent Neural Network.
Alright, we're gonna do that in the next tutorials,
and now let's go to Google Sheet, Excel or any spreadsheet
you would like to have closer look
at the Google stock price.
So here's the Google stock price,
this is the Google stock price train
that is the training data from 2012 to 2016
and we're gonna try to predict the open Google stock price,
that is the stock price at the beginning
of the financial day.
So let's have a look at the Google stock price
during this period.
So, to do this I'm going to select the two columns here
and then click on Insert and then click on Chart
to have a look at the open Google stock price
from 2012 to the end of 2016.
There it is, alright.
So that's the open Google stock price from,
as you can see, the beginning of 2012 to the end of 2016.
So as you can see, we can see some upward trends, globally,
with several downward trends, alright?
So that's the training set, and that's on this data set
that our LSTM will be trained.
Okay, we're gonna close that
and now let's have a quick look at the test set,
Google stock price test, that contains the same columns
but we're only interested in this one,
the open Google stock price,
for the first month of January 2017.
And make sure to understand that these are financial days,
so there's not Saturday or Sunday
and that's why here we start from January third
and we end up with January 31st
but there is not 31 days in this financial month,
there's only 20 days, alright?
So same, let's have a look at the Google stock price.
So I'm taking the two columns here
then click on Insert then Chart.
And I should get the Google stock price, there it is.
So, that's what we have to predict, this model,
the LSTM model we will implement
will not be trained on this data.
So it will have no idea of what the Google stock price
will be right after 2016.
And so, once our model is trained, we will predict
the Google stock price for the whole month of January,
and we will compare our predictions to the actual
results that is the real results, the real
Google stock price.
Alright?
So, if you're ready, let's implement the LSTM
and let's try to tackle this very challenging
problem to predict the upward or downward trends.
So I'm gonna go back to Anaconda, there we go,
and as you can see, we're gonna implement
our Recurrent Neural Network in three parts.
First, the data for processes, which is gonna be different
than the data processing you saw in the first two parts,
so we're gonna implement it from scratch.
Then part two will be about building the RNN,
so we'll build the architecture of the RNN
with the different layers, the different number of neurons,
in each of the LSTM layers and the output layer,
and then, in the third and last part of this implementation,
we will make the predictions on January 2017
and of course we will visualize the results.
The most exciting step.
Until then, enjoy Deep Learning.